LD4PE CompIndex Editorial Board - Telecon 1 (Thu 2015-07-30)

* Agenda:   https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-07-30.agenda.md
* Expected: Tom, Sean, Kai, Stuart, Magnus
* Time:     Thursday, 2015-07-30, 0800 SFO / 1100 NYC / 1600 BER
* Where:    Skype

----------------------------------------------------------------------
About CIEB (Tom and Stuart)

*  LD4PE Project and role of Competency Index
   Role of [Learning Linked Data project](http://lld.ischool.uw.edu/learning/)

*  Competency Index Model
   Topical cluster
   Topic 
   Competency (ASN statement)
   Benchmark

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Agenda for Telecon #2: "competencies related to SPARQL"

* On the basis of our review of:
  https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2015-07-30.review_list_SPARQL.md

* Let's improve the following "starter set" of competencies:

    Competency Index for RDF and Linked Data

        Topic cluter: Searching and querying

            Topic: Anatomy of a simple SPARQL query    
                Competency: Can read and understand which predefined namespaces are loaded into a SPARQL endpoint.
                Competency: Can use PREFIX to add a namespace to a SPARQL query.
                Competency: Can select the appropriate classes and properties from available namespaces to form queries.

            Topic: Querying RDF data using SPARQL 
                Competency: Understands the SPARQL 1.1 query language, protocol, functions and operators
                Competency: Uses query forms including ASK, SELECT, DESCRIBE, CONSTRUCT
                Competency: Uses query patterns including BGP, UNION, OPTIONAL, FILTER
                Competency: Uses sequence modifiers including DISTINCT, REDUCED, ORDER BY, LIMIT, OFFSET

            Topic: Updating RDF with SPARQL 1.1    
                Competency: Performs data management using INSERT, DELETE, DELETE/INSERT
                Competency: Performs graph management using LOAD, CLEAR, CREATE, DROP, COPY/MOVE/ADD

----------------------------------------------------------------------
CIEB Github and Wiki

-  CIEB homepage
   http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/CompIndexEB
-  LD4PE Competency Index (in RDF), occasionally updated
   https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/CompIndex
-  LD4PE Competency Index, as currently published on the Web
   http://explore.dublincore.org/rdf/ci-preview/
-  LD4PE Project homepage
   http://explore.dublincore.org/

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Meetings

Proposal: 
* Meet twice in September, twice in October, then possibly once 
  per month thereafter.
* One hour on Skype
* To prepare, CIEB members review several resources (videos, tutorial 
  materials), as assigned on a call, and post to the list several one-line 
  formulations of competencies addressed in the materials reviewed, for
  discussion on the call.
* The goal of each meeting will be to agree on the general idea underlying 
  new competencies, and to agree on the precise formulation of competencies
  previously discussed.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
CIEB membership

Co-chairs
    Tom Baker <tom@tombaker.org>, SkypeID tbaker9957
    Sean Dolan <sdolan5@kent.edu>, SkypeID xxxx

Core Members
    Kai Eckert <eckert@hdm-stuttgart.de>, SkypeID xxxx
    Stuart Sutton <sasutton@dublincore.net>, SkypeID sasutton
    Magnus Pfeffer <pfeffer@hdm-stuttgart.de>, SkypeID xxxx

Potential members?  Invited experts?
    Corey Harper <corey.harper@nyu.edu>, SkypeID xxxx
    Monika Szunejko <mszunejko@nla.gov.au>, Director of Database Services, Natl Library of Australia 
    Seth van Hooland <svhoolan@ulb.ac.be>
